# Steps to recreate results.
With the configurations present in this directory, syzkaller was ran for 72~ hours, on a ?? machine.

Starting from the syz-manager log, you can run [`extract_func_stores.py`](../../log_parsing_scripts/extract_func_stores.py) and [`extract_saved_progs.py`](../../log_parsing_scripts/extract_saved_progs.py) to generate `.json` files consumed by the upcoming scripts.

If we run the analysis scripts at [`process_func_stores.py`](../../log_parsing_scripts/process_func_stores.py), we will get `.json` files similar to the ones in this directory.

# Analysis

## Number of unique pairs.
File [`first_appearances.json`](./first_appearances.json) contains all distinct pairs of <Function Pointer, Store Instruction> that appeared in the log, which total up to 740.
Most <FP, SI> pairs appear several hundred times, which explains why even though there are so many entries in the `.json` generated by [`extract_func_stores.py`](../../log_parsing_scripts/extract_func_stores.py), when we look at the first time each pair appeared, we get a relatively small count.


## Multiple Values for one PC
File [`distinct_pcs.json`](./distinct_pcs.json) groups the <FP, SI> pairs by Store Instruction (SI).
This file is useful to answer whether it is true that on a regular fuzzing campaign, Syzkaller will encounter multiple test cases that save different Function Pointers (FPs) with the same SI.
Among all 740 <FP, SI> entries, we get that there's only 305 different SIs that were reached by Syzkaller.

### Impact of pseudo system calls

For the first few SIs, we can not only see that the variety of FPs storied with it is very large, but also that the amount of time each FP appeared on that SI is in the order of 1000. If we look closely, we can notice that all these pairs of distinct values can be generated via a single Syzkaller testcase (prog_id), and even via a single syscall in that testcase, like "syz_genetlink_get_family_id$netlbl_calipso", "syz_genetlink_get_family_id$netlbl_unlabel". These are *pseudo system calls* defined by Syzkaller, which execute arbitrary C code that drives the kernel to interact with hard-to-fuzz APIs (due to complex interfaces, etc.) 

At a first glance, this behaviour doesn't seem to happen for testcases that don't include pseudo system calls.

### Example: <FP, SI> pair that is hard to reach
If we look at SI: `0xffffffff83a7c7d2`, we see that most entries refer to a testcase that included a variant of the 
`socket` system call.

This instruction, after passing it via addr2line, refers to the following snippet of [netlink_create](https://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/linux/kernel/git/torvalds/linux.git/tree/net/netlink/af_netlink.c#n644):
```C
static int netlink_create(struct net *net, struct socket *sock, int protocol, int kern){
    // (...)
	int (*bind)(struct net *net, int group);
	void (*unbind)(struct net *net, int group);
	void (*release)(struct sock *sock, unsigned long *groups);
	// (...)
	bind = nl_table[protocol].bind;
	unbind = nl_table[protocol].unbind;
	release = nl_table[protocol].release;
    // (...)
    nlk->module = module;
	nlk->netlink_bind = bind;    // <------ Instruction 0xffffffff83a7c7d2
	nlk->netlink_unbind = unbind;
	nlk->netlink_release = release;
	// (...)
}
```

This is a function that initializes a heap structure with socket specific operations.
In this case syscall variant socket$netlink is the only one that can set `bind` to `0xffffffff82ea9c10`, which refers to 
`cn_bind` at [drivers/connector/connector.c:](https://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/linux/kernel/git/torvalds/linux.git/tree/drivers/connector/connector.c#n172).

Nevertheless, this testcase was included in the Syzkaller corpus immediately upon being found, as can be seen in `prog-0x1e2ec3d94500` of [`first_appearances_added_to_corpus.json`](first_appearances_added_to_corpus.json)

## Saved Testcases vs Discarded Testcases.
Among all Syzkaller testcases that were the first to register a <FP, SI> pair, we can see that [`first_appearances_added_to_corpus.json`](./first_appearances_added_to_corpus.json) contains the 611 that were also included as a new testcase in the Syzkaller corpus upon discovery. This means the majority of the testcases that encountered a novel <FP, SI> pair also generated new stable coverage.

On the other hand, about 129 <FP, SI> pairs were registered for the first time and were not included in the Syzkaller testcase corpus. These are the entries in [`first_appearences_not_in_corpus.json`](./first_appearances_not_in_corpus.json).

The file [`added_in_second_round.json`](./added_in_second_round.json), of about 65 elements, holds the pairs that were not added at the point when they were discovered, but were still covered by a later addition to the corpus.
Noteably, the pairs for which this happened are those that appear in [`first_appearences_not_in_corpus.json`](./first_appearances_not_in_corpus.json) but have a high `count` value.
This means that even though those testcases were discarded at first, the <FP, SI> pair occurred often enough to be included nevertheless.

### Example: <FP, SI> pair that was discovered but never added to the corpus

One interesting among such entries is testcase `prog-0x1e2eec76c800`, which reaches the `<0xffffffff817bd270, 0xffffffff8194649e>` pair for the first time. This is the store of the FP `0xffffffff817bd270` which points at [`vmalloc_info_show`](https://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/linux/kernel/git/torvalds/linux.git/tree/mm/vmalloc.c#n5216) on the Store Instruction `0xffffffff8194649e`, which occurs on function [`single_open`](https://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/linux/kernel/git/torvalds/linux.git/tree/fs/seq_file.c#n573) of `fs/seq_file.c`:

```C
int single_open(struct file *file, int (*show)(struct seq_file *, void *), void *data)
{
	struct seq_operations *op = kmalloc(sizeof(*op), GFP_KERNEL_ACCOUNT);
	int res = -ENOMEM;

	if (op) {
		op->start = single_start;
		op->next = single_next;
		op->stop = single_stop;
		op->show = show;          // <------- Instruction 0xffffffff8194649e
		res = seq_open(file, op);
		if (!res)
			((struct seq_file *)file->private_data)->private = data;
		else
			kfree(op);
	}
	return res;
}
```
This <FP, SI> occurred only 4 times, so it was not added to the corpus.